"Predicting the   retail customer retention potential level as high/medium/low &  Customer Segmentation & Pattern extraction

It is important for any retail company to focus on customer though continuous engagement which translates to increased sales and resultant profitability measured over a period. The customer churn results in not just loss of potential revenue and future profits together with sunk acquisition costs but also negative publicity and incurrence of additional cost of new acquisitions.

On the other hand, Customer focus leads to retention which in turn leads to generation of value, not just volumes. Thus, understanding of customer churn and the underlying factors is central to customer relationship management.

Retailers develop metric to capture customer response towards the product, service, price and competition so that they offer better products and service delivery to customers in comparison with competition. In retail business, a customer is treated as churned once his/her transactions/interactions/visits outdate a particular amount of time. It happens when the product/service is no more used or he uses a product/service of competitor. It is useful to understand defected customer in terms of interests and preferences  to win them back.

It is possible to understand the customer based on historical data of customers containing the characteristics of customers, their transactions, the interactions with them  etc. Customer churn predictions help the retail company devise suitable marketing programs to target specific groups of retail customers as part of continued engagement. To ensure that such marketing spend is appropriately directed to the customers likely to be retained and/or with high probability of retention, you are required to classify the retention potential of customer as High/Medium/Low.


You are expected to classify each customer  as high/medium/low under the target attribute “RententionPotential”. Here identifying the medium level customers is important as this category  indicates where some intelligent action may lead to high possibility of retaining the customers who are likely to churn.

You are also required to segment the customers from the standpoint of customer retention for strategic purposes and extract the top 5 patterns for each level in target attribute, while answering other questions too cited below.
